The last video we were able to save a recipe to the state in the recipe app component.
Now we want to figure out how to hide and show the form after we've either saved the recipe or if we've
clicked the X button to close the form.
So let's think about this for a sec I'll go back to the finished product.
So here's our solution.
And when I click on new recipe the form shows up if I click on this x the form goes away.
So right away you'll see that we have two different components that care about the same piece of state.
This nav bar component is one of them cooking new recipe makes that form show up.
But then this component is our recipe input and clicking on the X makes that go away.
Now let's take a look at the code.
Notice here that the nav bar and the recipe input are siblings and I mentioned earlier two siblings
can never share state.
So if we put the state in the nav bar we wouldn't have a good way of passing into the recipe input and
vice versa.
Whenever you're in the situation when two siblings need to share state the answer is to push the state
up to the parent.
So that means this app component the recipe app should own the state and what state should it own.
Well it should just be a boolean to decide whether or not to show the form.
So let's set that up.
Now we have a piece of state just to decide whether or not to show the form and we should use that inside
of a render method to conditionally show the render input component.
So now if Show form is true we will mount the recipe and put component into the DOM.
If it is false then we'll just return now which won't render anything.
So when I reload this I should see the form anymore.
And now my form is gone.
Now the next step is to hook it up so that we can actually make the form show up in order to do that
the entire recipe app component needs to pass a callback function to the nav bar component so that when
the new recipe link is clicked the state in the recipe app component the higher level one can update.
OK back to the code.
Like I mentioned and we pass a callback function to this nav bar component and it should be a simple
function so I'll just use an inline arrow function.
Let's name the prop.
How about on recipe.
I'll say on new recipe
and that inside of this function I just want to call set state and set show form to true.
Now so far code doesn't do anything because the nav bar doesn't do anything with this on recipe.
On new recipe Propp.
So now we have to change the nav bar.
Let's start by giving it some default props and prop types.
And this one I don't think we've seen before.
It's prop types that phunk F U N C
and they also need to remember to import Propp types.
OK there we go.
And now the only thing that's left is to invoke that callback when new recipe is clicked.
So I had an on click there
OK let's test this out.
All right my form shows up but now I can't get rid of it.
So now let's get this close button working our close button is located in the recipe and put.
And if you recall we already had close set up in the code that I copied over.
So let's take a look at that.
In this form there's the X button and unclick we call the method called on clothes and unclose is coming
as a prop.
So if we look at the default props at the top here we've already got an enclosed method that does nothing
and inside of render we're extracting that on clothes from the stop props from the object.
So the only step left now is to give our recipe input component and unclose method.
And I'll add that unclose method inside of here.
Let's make this multiple line so it's a little easier to read.
And what do I want to do on close.
Well I want to change the state of show form to be false so that we are not seeing the form.
All right now we're passing in unclose method.
That's a function which will invoke this sad state and make show form become false.
So let's see that
I'll refresh the page and then open up the recipe form again and try to close it.
And it now works.
So showing in closing works.
The last change we need to make is to get the form to go away when we save a new recipe.
So right now the form sticks around was tried out
as you can see the form still up there.
So we want that form to be hidden after we click save.
So let's do that as well.
That logic should go into our handle save method.
So let's go check that out.
And then inside of here we want to update one more piece of state which is to make show form always
false
OK let's test that.
All right.
Looks good.
Our recipe goes away.
That's all for this one in the next video we'll be able to delete recipes.